[Music]
you know it seems impossible to survive
even one day without money in the modern
world and yet if you do find yourself in
this situation don't panic you don't
have to starve or use credit just follow
this instruction and be on the bright
side of life even without cash now
there's one thing you can't do without
and that's food if your fridge and your
pockets are empty what can you do well
check out my list number one the most
obvious decision is to call your
relatives or friends and visit them for
lunch or dinner you'll have both food
and pleasant company don't think that
it's something to be ashamed of a lot of
brilliant artists writers and musicians
use this method when they were pressed
for money to ask neighbors can lend you
some food and then invite them for
dinner when you get back on your feet
three if there are no friends or
relatives around and you start feeling
hungry look for food sharing groups in
social media food sharing is an
ecological movement that was started in
Germany in response to food waste about
one third of all the products produced
in the world are thrown away and most of
them aren't spoiled supermarkets
restaurants and caterers can utilize
food that's lost it's presentable
appearance but is still good some
restaurants food markets and cafes hold
food sharing events where they cook
dishes from leftover food and then give
them away for free to anybody who wants
them some people also gather wasted food
from vegetable wholesale warehouses and
cook it to spread among those who can't
afford to buy food you can find the
information about events like this on
food sharing pages - for in a lot of
coffee houses you could get a free
coffee that was paid for by a previous
customer just ask the barista if they
practice it five
use apps that show free events and
vouchers for big discounts at
restaurants in a big city something's
goin on daily and exhibitions parties
and presentations with a free buffet you
can eat and have fun too sometimes you
can pay for lunch with with points that
you've gathered in an app so just
monitor them for good deals six go to a
food market where local farmers or small
private restaurants are presented they
usually give out free samples which can
fill you up if you go through the whole
market sometimes you can get a big
discount or a free snack if you post a
good review about a restaurant on your
social media page or fulfill other
conditions don't be shy to offer an ad
in your Instagram if you have a lot of
followers seven before people invented
money they used to barter if you think
that's outdated you'd be surprised
think about any things or services that
you could exchange for food you can make
a post on your social media in special
groups or apps devoted to bartering
you're lucky if you can draw or do
handiwork or anything useful babysitting
or walking with pets is a good idea too
if you have an old smartphone or iPod or
pretty much any device that you don't
need anymore you can exchange it for
food or money too
eight go to a restaurant and offer your
services in return for lunch or dinner
you can wash dishes clean the kitchen or
bus tables nine sign up for a
supermarket mail out about utilizing
leftover products and gather food for
free small grocery stores will give you
unused food if you help sort vegetables
and fruit ten and finally if none of the
above work and you're not daunted by the
extreme become of Regan rhymes with
vegan but these are people who abstain
from consumerism and salvage society's
wasted food and resources rather than
purchasing more themselves and it's not
just only food sharing in fact vegans
look for food in dumpsters there's a
special term that describes their way of
gaining food
dumpster diving they believe in
conscious consumption and eat leftover
food mainly because of ideology not
necessity the term vegan was offered in
1995 by Keith McHenry a leader of a
volunteer run group that spreads food
among homeless people freegans believe
that humans treat nature only as
consumers making goods out of resources
and then wasting tons of them because
it's easier to throw them away than to
recycle they have a noble mission to
save as much food waste as possible this
can cheer you up if you have to dumpster
dive yourself world wise vegans know
dumpsters both private and those near
restaurants and supermarkets where one
can find a lot of food waste they use
rubber gloves and masks and try to
arrange a system with the owners so that
food is piled up in boxes and not just
thrown into the dumpster it's not a
guarantee of course sometimes there
won't be any food waste at all but if
you're lucky you'll find more than you
can eat in several days just remember
that there are health risks associated
with dumpster diving and be sure you're
willing to take those risks before
attempting something so extreme okay so
now you know that you won't starve
without money but what about other
necessities such as transport clothing
and entertainment if it's warm enough
you can ride a bicycle this way you'll
help the environment too hitchhiking is
another way of getting somewhere but
it's not necessarily safe and be ready
to change several cars before you get to
your destination you can also buy a bus
or subway ticket with any money you get
in return for the service as I mentioned
earlier it's a very bad idea to try and
get a free ride on public transport
however if you get caught you will be
fined and will have to pay money you
didn't have in the first place
clothes as well as furniture home
appliances and pretty much anything else
can be found on social media or in
special apps both free and on barter
terms you can visit a secondhand store
and find good clothes that are really
cheap just in case you've managed to
earn something and finally you don't
have to be cooped up indoors if you're
pressed for money
look for free books and movies and
libraries cinemas have free shows and
museums have doors open dates you just
have to subscribe to their pages in
social media and monitor updates or find
special offers and apps with coupons and
if your Wi-Fi was cut off because you
haven't paid for it on time use the free
one in the nearest coffee shop there are
people who have tried to live without
money just for the challenge of it and
then liked it so much they made it their
lifestyle when journalist Michelle Maga
from London moved to a new house she
made up her mind to sell or give away
everything she didn't need anymore
as a result she got rid of 80% of her
belongings it had a huge impact on her
and made her realize she was stuck in a
cycle of consumerism earning money to
buy stuff she didn't really need which
wasn't making her happy she took a step
further and spent a year without useless
purchases she had about 37 dollars a
week which covered three meals for
herself and her husband a day toiletries
and house cleaning products soon she
found it wasn't difficult to save money
small purchases we don't pay attention
to can turn into huge expenses michelle
counted that she spent four hundred and
ninety dollars in a year on coffee even
though she doesn't like it that much it
took her more time to look for special
offers on products and get to work by
bicycle but the result was worth it
she got richer and wiser she was able to
pay off a big part of her mortgage and
realized she doesn't have to stay
indebted to the bank for another twenty
five years she says she won't always
stick to such an extremely frugal
lifestyle but definitely won't buy tons
of useless things anymore like she used
to
do you have any more ideas on how to
survive without money let me know down
in the comments hey if you learned
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life